#summary Using Analogues as a stand-alone application

=Using Analogues as a stand-alone application=

If you are interested in running analogues tool in your own PC without conection to the internet, you can follow the next steps. 
Please note that all of the comments and pictures were generated using R for Windows.

====What is R?====

R is a system for statistical computation and graphics. It consists of a language plus a run-time environment with graphics, a debugger, 
access to certain system functions, and the ability to run programs stored in script files.

R has a home page at http://www.R-project.org/. It is free software distributed under a GNU-style copyleft, 
and an official part of the GNU project ('GNU S').

====What is Analogues?====

Analogues is an R package to find climate analogues between a reference site and a number of other sites or a raster, within current or future climate.
Analogues packages 0.0.5 was built using R version 2.12.1 (_under Unix/Ubuntu OS_), it was developed by Josh Hooker, Julian Ramirez and Johannes Signer from CIAT.

The Analogue package offers a limited set of global climate data in ASCII format with 0.5 degree resolution 
for the monthly mean temperature (tmean), monthly temperature range (dtr) and the monthly precipitation (prec). 
The data is provided for current climate and for 24 GCMs of the SRES A1B for 2030.

{{{
Package: analogues
Type: Package
Title: Calculate climate analogues
Version: 0.0.5
Date: 2011-08-01
Author: Josh Hooker, Julian Ramirez, Johannes Signer
Maintainer: Johannes Signer (jmsigner at gmail dot com)
Description: Calculate climate analogues
License: GPL3
LazyLoad: yes
Collate: 'applyThreshold.R' 'ccafsMPointsPercentDiff.R'
        'ccafsMPoints.R' 'ccafsPoint.R' 'createParameters.R'
        'cropInteractive.R' 'dissimilarity.R' 'halMPoints.R'
        'loadDataGrass.R' 'loadData.R' 'loadGridsFromFile.R'
        'loadWeights.R' 'report.R' 'summary.R' 'util.R'
Packaged: 2011-08-04 15:27:18 UTC; jsigner
Built: R 2.12.1; ; 2011-08-04 15:27:19 UTC; unix
}}}


It contains more than 10 functions to allow users to calculate similarity of climate sites. Some of the main functions are:

  # _Apply thresholding to araster_
  # _Calculate ccafs dissimilarity between points with climate information_
  # _Initiate parameters for analogue dissimilarity analysis_
  # _Crop raster to a region of intrest_
  # _Computes distance between one reference point and one other points_
  # _Load data for the dissimilarity calculations_
  # _Extract reference values from rasters_
  # _Load seperate grids_
  # _Load weights for grids_
  # _Load weights from GRASS_
  # _Hallegatte Method_
  # _Create a report_


==System Requirements==

Analogues runs under R environment, it means, that it could run on almost all current operaring systems as follow:

 * Mcrosoft Windows 
 * UNIX platforms and similar systems (including FreeBSD and Linux)
 * Mac OS

R is being developed for the Unix-like, Windows and Mac families of operating systems. Support for Mac OS Classic ended with R 1.7.1.

For details information about which machines are supported by R, please review 
[http://cran.r-project.org/doc/FAQ/R-FAQ.html#What-machines-does-R-run-on_003f What machines does R run on?] article.


*The steps in this document were tested using:*
 * _Microsoft Windows 7 (32 bit)_
 * _Core 2 Duo at 2.0 GHz_
 * _2 GB RAM_
 * _60GB + 1GB Swap file hard disk space_
 * _DirectX 9.0c compatible video card_

   _*R and Analogue plus dependences packages you need 104 Mb aprox. and for Climate data you must have 1.43 GB of free space.*_


==Obtaining and Installing R for Windows==

The following guide use Microsoft Windows 7 as a default operaring system.

===Obtaining R===

Go to any CRAN site using your favorite web browser (see http://cran.r-project.org/mirrors.html for a list), and choose a location close to you to minimize network load.
Once you are in _the Comprehensive R Archive Network_ page, click on [http://cran.icesi.edu.co/CRAN/bin/windows/ Download R for Windows], then select base link
to go to the binaries and click over [http://cran.icesi.edu.co/CRAN/bin/windows/base/R-2.13.1-win.exe Download R 2.13.1 for Windows] link.
If you are using a FTP site, navigate to the bin/windows/base directory and collect the file(s) you need.

You also can download directly from [http://cran.icesi.edu.co/CRAN/bin/windows/base/R-2.13.1-win.exe here]. But if you want to check the package distribuited by R we suggest you go to the R website and 
download directly and get de [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Md5sum md5sum].

  The current release is distributed as an installer ‘R-2.13.1-win.exe’ of about 39Mb. This contains all the components and allows as complete as installation as you choose.

  
 _CRAN is a network of ftp and web servers around the world that store identical, up-to-date, versions of code and documentation for R._

 
===Installing R for Windows===

Current binary versions of R run on Windows XP or later, including on 64-bit versions. The last version known to run on Windows 2000 was 2.12.2.

{{{
  We have only tested on versions of Windows currently supported by Microsoft, mainly 32-bit Windows 7 and 64-bit Windows Server 2008.
}}}

Installation is via the installer R-2.13.1-win.exe. Just double-click on the icon and follow the instructions. 
When installing on a 64-bit version of Windows the options will include 32- or 64-bit versions of R (and the default is to install both). 
You can uninstall R from the Control Panel or from the (optional) R program group on the Start Menu.


Double-click over the _R-2.13.1-win.exe_ file and follow the steps.


[http://cran.icesi.edu.co/CRAN/bin/windows/base/README.R-2.13.1 For further info]

[http://cran.r-project.org/bin/windows/base/rw-FAQ.html R for Windows FAQ]


==Obtaining and Installing Analogues for Windows==

===Obtaining Analogues package===



===Installing Analogues package===

There are two simple way to install Analogues package for R.

The first one is using the following command in R:

{{{
install.packages("analogues_x.x.x.zip", repos="NULL")
}}}

The second one is using R windows interface as follow:

 # Select XXXXXXX from the Main menu
 # Click on XXXXXXXXX
 # Select the downloaded zip file
 # That's it!

If you have any problems installing this package please go to the Analogues package home page.


==Using Analogues with R==
 
Check out your R and Analogue installation using Basic Tutorials at [http://code.google.com/p/webgis-analogues/wiki/UsingAnalogueR Using Analogues with R]


-----------------
|| [http://code.google.com/p/webgis-analogues/wiki/Standalone?wl=es Español] ||


<g:plusone size="medium"></g:plusone>